adds migration step to Java application (#1460)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/languages/java/migration.md

---
title: "Moving a Java application to Platform.sh"
weight: 2
sidebarTitle: "Moving to Platform.sh"
---

> It is common to have a Java application that wants to migrate to Platform.sh. It has support to several styles of Java application such as monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It is common to have a Java application that wants to migrate to Platform.sh. It has support to several styles of Java application such as monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless.
```

## Minimum Requirement

> To run a Java application at Platform.sh you must check: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a Java application at Platform.sh you will need: 
```

> * [A supported Java version](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java.html#supported-versions)

Reviewer: All of the internal links should be relref links.

> * [A build management](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java.html#support-build-automation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [A build management tool](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java.html#support-build-automation)
```

  * [Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 
  * [Maven Wrapper](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-wrapper)
  * [Ant](https://ant.apache.org/)
* A Git Repository:
  * [GitHub](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source/github.html)
  * [BitBucket](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source/bitbucket.html)
  * [GitLab](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source/gitlab.html)
  * The default Git repository provided by Platform.sh

{{< note >}}

> A container application cannot be bigger than **8 GB**, see  [tunning](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java/tuning.html) to more details.

Reviewer: This should clarify if you mean disk or memory.  I assume you mean disk here, but let's be clear.

{{< /note >}}

## Monolith/Single Application

To start a Java application, you need to understand the [Platform.sh structure](https://docs.platform.sh/overview/structure.html).  At minimum you will need three [YAML files](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/yaml.html): 

1. [Application](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app.html)
2. [Route](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/routes.html)

### Application

```yaml

> name: app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# .platform.app.yaml
name: app
```

type: "java:<version>"
disk: 1024
hooks:
    build: 2
web:
    commands:
        start: 3
```

> 1. [A Java version](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java.html#supported-versions), e,g.: `java:11`

Reviewer: Oh!  I see, you were using the numbers as footnotes.  That makes the removal of the "1" I suggested not make sense. :smile:  I'm not sure that footnoting a YAML snippet works, though.  Maybe if the numbers used "[2]" instead of just "2"?

I'm not sure what works well here.  @chadwcarlson?

> 2. [The build defines what happens when building the application](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/build.html#build), This build process might generate an executable file such as a uber-jar e.g.: `mvn clean package`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [The build defines what happens when building the application](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/build.html#build), This build process should generate an executable file such as a uber-jar e.g.: `mvn clean package`
```

3. [The commands key defines the command to launch the application](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/web.html#commands). E.g.:  `java -jar file.jar`
4. In the start's command needs to receive the port where the application will execute thought the `PORT` environment. That is trivial if your application follows the port bind principle. E.g.: `java -jar jar --port=$PORT`

### Route

```yaml

> "https://{default}/":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# .platform/routes.yaml

"https://{default}/":
```

  type: upstream
  upstream: 1
"https://www.{default}/":
  type: redirect
  to: "https://{default}/"
```

1. It defines the application will link in the route, e.g.: `"app:http"`

{{< note >}}

> Be aware that the container has a maximum memory if the application is stateless to increase a more powerful computer, there is the strategy to use a [load balancer](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-configure-load-balancer-in-a-single-application/553).

Reviewer: I cannot parse this sentence in my head.  What are you saying here?

Author: Each container has a maximum limit, we have the option of horizontal scalability with a load balancer.

> Be aware that after the build, it creates a read-only system. You have the [mount option to create a writable folder](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/storage.html#mounts).

Reviewer: This note seems out of place.  It's not related to the routes configuration.

* [Aggregate all applications in a single file with applications.yaml](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/multi-app.html#applicationsyaml)

| Article                                                      | Content                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Microservices in the cloud, part two](https://platform.sh/blog/2019/microservices-in-the-cloud-part-two/) | [Source](https://github.com/EventosJEspanol/latin-america-micro-profile) |
| [Microservices in the cloud, part one](https://platform.sh/blog/2019/microservices-in-the-cloud-part-one/) | [Source](https://github.com/EventosJEspanol/latin-america-micro-profile) |
| [Multiple Applications](https://community.platform.sh/t/multiple-applications-tomcat/468) | [Source](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/tomcat-multi-app) |
| [Configure multi-applications with applications.yaml](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-configure-multi-applications-with-applications-yaml/552) | [Source](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/tomcat-multi-app-applications) |

{{< note >}}

> As a single application, you have the option to set load balancer to some or [all applications in the project cluster](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-configure-load-balancer-in-a-multiple-applications/554).

Reviewer: This is technically true for multi-app, as well.  It's just more involved.

Reviewer: Isn't this redundant with the note above that I just commented on?

Author: Yes, that is true to multi-app. I would like to keep it redudant

{{< /note >}}

## Access to services included at Platform.sh

> [Unlike other PaaS services, Platform.sh is batteries included, which means that you don’t need to subscribe to an external service to get a cache or a search engine](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/services.html). However, you can use a database or any services such as a transition process, just be aware of the [firewall](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/firewall.html). 

Reviewer: This doesn't need to all be the link.  Also, the "unlike other PaaS" line is over-done and we should stop using it. It's a decade out of date. :smile:

> When applications need to access a service, it is important to activate the [Relationships tag](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/relationships.html), because. by default an application may not talk to any other container within a project it includes others projects as a microservices architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When applications need to access a service, it is important to include the [Relationships key](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/relationships.html), because. by default an application may not talk to any other container within a project it includes others projects as a microservices architecture.
```

> After activating the container application to access other services or another application container, the next step is to connect your app to those services. There are several ways to do that, we'll explain the main ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to a service from your deployed application, you will need to pass the relationships information into your application's configuration.  The way to do so varies with the application.  The most common mechanisms are listed below.
```

### Overwrite

> If you are using some frameworks that follow the [Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/), mainly the [third term](https://12factor.net/config) such as Spring, Eclipse MicroProfile Config, Quarkus, Micronauts, and so on, that is easy because you can overwrite the configuration on the application file without add any dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a framework that follows the [Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/) methodology, particularly the [third point](https://12factor.net/config), you will be able to configure the application directly from environment variables.  Examples of such frameworks include Spring, Eclipse MicroProfile Config, Quarkus, and Micronauts.
```

> The services information are on the as **PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS** [environment that will exist only on a runtime](https://docs.platform.sh/development/variables.html) that is A base64-encoded JSON object whose keys are the relationship name and the values are arrays of relationship endpoint definitions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The services information is available in the **PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS** [environment variable]({{< relref development/variables.md >}}).  It is a base64-encoded JSON object whose keys are the relationship name and the values are arrays of relationship endpoint definitions. 
```

> Platform.sh has support to [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) that allows to extract information from this JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platform.sh supports [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) that allows to extract information from this JSON.
```

```shell

> export HOST=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS|base64 -d|jq -r ".database[0].host"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export HOST=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].host"`
```

The longer form switches are much more self-documenting.

| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Spring Data MongoDB](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-spring-data-mongodb-variable-to-access-platform-sh-services/528) | [Source](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/tree/master/spring-mongodb) |
| [Jakarta EE/MicroProfile Config](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-configuration-to-jakarta-microprofile-to-access-platform-sh-services/520) | [Source](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/tree/master/jakarta-nosql) |
| [Spring Data JPA](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-spring-data-variable-to-access-platform-sh-services/518) | [Source](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/tree/master/spring-jpa) |
| [Payara JPA](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-variables-to-payara-jpa-access-platform-sh-sql-services/519) | [Source](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/blob/master/payara/README.md) |

> Several variables might pollute the application files if you wish there is the `.environment` [file as part of your application](https://docs.platform.sh/development/variables.html?#shell-variables). 

Reviewer: I don't know what this line is saying.  Pollute what, how?

Author: Pollute = to many lines in the document.

E.g.:

```shell

> export HOST=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS|base64 -d|jq -r ".database[0].host"`
> export PASSWORD=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS|base64 -d|jq -r ".database[0].password"`
> export USER=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS|base64 -d|jq -r ".database[0].username"`
> export DATABASE=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS|base64 -d|jq -r ".database[0].path"`
> export JDBC=jdbc:postgresql://${HOST}/${DATABASE}
> export JAVA_MEMORY=-Xmx$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m
> export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_MEMORY -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export DB_HOST=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].host"`
export DB_PASSWORD=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].password"`
export DB_USER=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].username"`
export DB_DATABASE=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].path"`
export JDBC=jdbc:postgresql://${HOST}/${DATABASE}
export JAVA_MEMORY=-Xmx$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m
export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_MEMORY -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError"
```

```

This `.environment` can interact to each application file. E.g.: 

```yaml
name: app
type: "java:11"
disk: 1024
hooks:
    build: ./mvnw package -DskipTests -Dquarkus.package.uber-jar=true
relationships:
    database: "db:postgresql"
web:
    commands:
        start: java -jar $JAVA_OPTS $CREDENTIAL -Dquarkus.http.port=$PORT jarfile.jar

```

### Using Java Config Reader

> If your frameworks do not support the possibility to overwrite configurations, there is [Platform.sh Config Reader](https://github.com/platformsh/config-reader-java).This library provides a streamlined and easy to use way to interact with a Platform.sh environment. It offers utility methods to access routes  and relationships more cleanly than reading the raw environment  variables yourself. [Check the maven dependency](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/sh.platform/config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your framework does not support configuration via environment variables, there is the [Platform.sh Config Reader](https://github.com/platformsh/config-reader-java).This library provides a streamlined and easy to use way to interact with a Platform.sh environment. It offers utility methods to access routes and relationships more cleanly than reading the raw environment variables yourself. [See the maven dependency](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/sh.platform/config).
```

---
title: "Moving a Java application to Platform.sh"
weight: 2
sidebarTitle: "Moving to Platform.sh"
---

> It is common to have a Java application that wants to migrate to Platform.sh. It has support to several styles of Java application such as monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common to have a Java application that you want to migrate to Platform.sh.  Platform.sh supports several styles of Java application, such as monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless.
```

* [A build management tool]({{< relref "/languages/java.md#support-build-automation" >}})
  * [Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 
  * [Maven Wrapper](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-wrapper)
  * [Ant](https://ant.apache.org/)
* A Git Repository:
  * [GitHub]({{< relref "integrations/source/github.md" >}})
  * [BitBucket]({{< relref "integrations/source/bitbucket.md" >}})
  * [GitLab]({{< relref "integrations/source/gitlab.md" >}})
  * The default Git repository provided by Platform.sh

{{< note >}}
A container application cannot be bigger than **8 GB** of memory, see  [tunning](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java/tuning.html) to more details.
{{< /note >}}

## Monolith/Single Application

To start a Java application, you need to understand the [Platform.sh structure](https://docs.platform.sh/overview/structure.html).  At minimum you will need three [YAML files](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/yaml.html): 

1. [Application]({{< relref "configuration/app.md" >}})
2. [Route]({{< relref "configuration/routes.md" >}})

### Application

```yaml
# .platform.app.yaml

name: app

> type: "java:<version>" 1

Reviewer: @chadwcarlson What are your thoughts on the footnoting style here?  I'm torn.

disk: 1024
hooks:
    build: 2
web:
    commands:
        start: 3
```

1. [A Java version]({{< relref "languages/java.md#supported-versions" >}}), e,g.: `java:11`
2. [The build defines what happens when building the application]({{< relref "configuration/app/build.md#build" >}}), This build process will typically generate an executable file such as a uber-jar e.g.: `mvn clean package`
3. [The commands key defines the command to launch the application]({{< relref "configuration/app/web.md#commands" >}}). E.g.:  `java -jar file.jar`
4. In the start's command needs to receive the port where the application will execute thought the `PORT` environment. That is trivial if your application follows the port bind principle. E.g.: `java -jar jar --port=$PORT`

### Route

```yaml
# .platform/routes.yaml

"https://{default}/":
  type: upstream
  upstream: 1
"https://www.{default}/":
  type: redirect
  to: "https://{default}/"
```

1. It defines the application will link in the route, e.g.: `"app:http"`

{{< note >}}

> Be aware that the container has a maximum memory if the application is stateless to increase a more powerful computer, there is the strategy to use a [load balancer](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-configure-load-balancer-in-a-single-application/553).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application instances have a limited amount of memory, the size of which depends on your plan and configuration.  The largest available is 8 GB.  A stateless application can be scaled horizontally to multiple application instances using Varnish in a [load balancer](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-configure-load-balancer-in-a-single-application/553) configuration.
```

> Be aware that after the build, it creates a read-only system. You have the [mount option to create a writable folder]({{< relref "configuration/app/storage.md#mounts" >}}).

Reviewer: This line does not belong in the routes section.  It should be in the application section.

---
title: "Moving a Java application to Platform.sh"
weight: 2
sidebarTitle: "Moving to Platform.sh"
---

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> It is widespread to have a Java application that wants to migrate to Platform.sh. It has support to several styles of Java application such as monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common to have a Java application that wants to migrate to Platform.sh. It has support to several styles of Java application such as monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless.
```

This reads like it's aimed at Psh staff, not at customers.

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Minimum Requirement

To run a Java application at Platform.sh you must check: 

* [A supported Java version](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java.html#supported-versions)
* [A build management](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java.html#support-build-automation)
  * [Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 
  * [Maven Wrapper](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-wrapper)
  * [Ant](https://ant.apache.org/)
* A Git Repository:
  * [GitHub](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source/github.html)
  * [BitBucket](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source/bitbucket.html)
  * [GitLab](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source/gitlab.html)
  * The default Git repository provided by Platform.sh

{{< note >}}

> A container application cannot be bigger than **8 GB**, checkout, [tunning](https://docs.platform.sh/languages/java/tuning.html) to more details.

Reviewer: This should be an internal link, using relref.

Also, "see [link]", not "checkout, [link]".

Author: Thank you

{{< /note >}}

## Monolith/Single Application

> To start a Java application, you need to understand the Platform.sh [structure](https://docs.platform.sh/overview/structure.html), as mimimium it requests two [YAML files](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/yaml.html): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a Java application, you need to understand the [Platform.sh structure](https://docs.platform.sh/overview/structure.html).  At minimum you will need three [YAML files](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/yaml.html): 
```

Reviewer: The services.yaml file is required, even if it's empty.

1. [Application](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app.html)
2. [Route](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/routes.html)

### Application

```yaml
name: app

> type: "java:<version>" 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: "java:<version>"
```
